I had a revelation recently I've been a
member of my Toast Masters Club for the
last eight years or so and what I
realized is that the vast majority of
the focus within the Toast Masters
program is speaking one too many what I
mean by that is you as the speaker in
front of a group of people speaking to
many people at once but this wasn't
translating to reality because most
conferences I attend the majority of the
content is actually panel conversations
and panel conversations are a little bit
different than speaking opportunities
when it's you in front of a massive
audience because you're sharing the
stage with a few other people and the
setup isn't what it would be if you were
just speaking by yourself so with that
in mind I thought it would be the
perfect opportunity to create this video
on how to be a great panelist if you're
ever asked to be a part of a a panel as
part of a conference or any speaking
session and keep an eye out because I'm
going to be featuring another video
coming up that's going to focus on how
to moderate a panel as well hey everyone
my name is Wade Patterson and my YouTube
channel is all about public speaking I
want to help make you a more impactful
Communicator so if that's of interest to
you please consider subscribing to my
channel so I mentioned at the beginning
that panel conversations are different
than one individual speaker and yes
you're sharing the stage with other
people but another impact is that often
panel sessions have the panelists seated
and that's fine if they're seated but it
takes away from some of the body
language in terms of it's difficult to
get up move around the stage that would
look really awkward if you were part of
a panel conversation so you're limited
to your arms and your body in a seated
position right off the get-go that is
one difference between a single
individual speaker talking to a large
audience if you're being asked to be on
a panel you probably already have quite
a bit of expertise in the theme or the
subject matter that the panel is going
to be about and congratulations it's a
massive honor to be asked to be on a
panel well done in terms of getting
ready for the panel one of the top
things you want to focus on is
preparedness
and a great panel moderator will ensure
that the panelists are prepared that
person may even set up a pre interiew or
conversation to go over some of the
questions but don't rely on the
moderator to do that if you haven't
heard anything from the moderator feel
free to reach out to that individual and
ask him or her what some of the themes
are going to be that you're going to be
asked about some moderators may not give
you every single question verbatim nor
should you expect that every question
they tell you will be exactly what is
asked on the day but having That Base
information allows you to think through
some of your answers and themes that you
can focus on within your responses being
prepared goes beyond that though you
also want to figure out what the panel
is going to look like what time of day
is it at how long is the panel going to
go for how early should you show up
these are important questions to ask to
ensure that nobody is stressed out on
the day of right before you're about to
go on your panel give yourself a lot of
time if you have a chance check out the
room or the venue you're going to be
speaking in because that will help you
become more comfortable with the
environment right off the get-go and if
you want to be really prepared for this
panel conversation you can do a little
bit of research about not only the
moderator but your co-panelists it's
always helpful to have a little bit of
background information information
because at the end of the day a panel is
sort of like a team effort and the best
panels see every single panelist shine
and by knowing a little bit of
background information if one panelist
answers and then the question comes to
you you may be able to add a little bit
of a transition comment which points out
some of the expertise of the panel
member who just answered after you have
that level of preparedness you've
reached out to the panel moderator and
gotten some of the questions I don't
want you to write out your responses
word for word it's okay to have some
notes that you're going to reference but
you don't want to be on stage with a
piece of paper that you're reading a
response to first off nobody in the
audience wants to see that the whole
benefit of live public speaking is that
you're getting realtime answers and a
certain level of authenticity from the
knowledge of the people who are on stage
I'm not saying it's not a good idea to
practice practice your responses know
what you're going to talk about but
don't have a piece of paper with
everything written down word for word I
had a real life experience where I the
first time I ever had the opportunity to
be on radio it was CBC Radio here in
Colona and I was being interviewed about
a subject matter related to West Colona
and the night before I had spent hours
writing out all of my responses to
potential questions I may be asked and
when I showed up to the studio the day
to do the interview the interviewer took
my piece of paper and he asked me hey
wait what does it say on here and I
started to give him some of my
explanations and the responses I had
written down and right in front of me he
went he crumpled up the piece of paper
and threw it and he said perfect you
don't need that although that shocked me
at the time he was right because whether
you're on radio whether you're live in
person people can tell when you're
reading off of a prepared response
versus giving an authentic answer write
down your notes however you need to to
get yourself mentally there but practice
without the notes so that on the day of
you're not relying on a piece of paper
my next suggestion if you're going to be
on a panel is to engage in active
listening sometimes we're so focused on
the responses we're going to give or the
responses that we've practiced that we
forget to be sitting there and listening
to what the other panelists have to say
and there can be a great opportunity by
listening to what the others have to say
because this is where the magic of real
time comments or funny observations
those things that happen from time to
time in a real life speaking opportunity
those are your opportunities to really
shine and stand out but if you're only
concentrated on what you're going to be
asked next and thinking about how you're
going to respond you may miss those
opportunities and and you may repeat
something that's already been said you
may give an answer that is verbatim said
by another panelist so it's that balance
of being prepared for what you're going
to say but also actively listen be
present in the moment so that you can
adjust or pivot based on what the other
panelists say active listening and
observations can include the audience as
well if you notice that the audience
members have their arms crossed or
they're all on their phone and there
seems to be a level of disengagement
professional speakers or people who are
polished at the craft will actually take
that opportunity to ask the audience a
question themselves or say put your hand
up if you've had this experience and
they'll shock the audience out of that
lull State re-engage them and then
deliver their answer and there's a
higher likelihood that whatever you as
the panelist say after re-engaging the
audience that that's going to sync with
them and really resonate a final really
important tip is to be prepared for
curveballs this happens often in many
forms when you're on a panel but
sometimes the questions you think you're
going to be asked are not what you
actually get asked by the moderator on
the day of and that could be for a
variety of reasons maybe the moderator
feels like the conversation needs to
take a turn and that is their
opportunity they are the quarterback of
that session
so you can't really tell the moderator
not to ask you a certain question if he
or she does you need to respond so be
ready to Pivot do the research practice
but again it's that balance and be
prepared for questions you may not
anticipate and also the audience members
have the opportunity to ask you a
question and these are questions you
can't prepare for therefore it is really
important to have that ability to adapt
when you show up for your panel I
mentioned in the beginning that body
language is limited when you're Seated
on a stool or a chair as part of a panel
with that in mind you want to bring
those hands up really engage the
audience with your hands because you
almost have to
overcompensate because you don't have
the legs to move around the stage and
keep them engaged with body language
that way so make sure just because
you're seated doesn't mean you can't
still incorporate some level of body
language but it's going to have to do
more with the hands and the final tip of
advice is that all of the fundamentals
of public speaking still come into play
you still want to craft your answers if
possible with some level of structure
perhaps an opening comment the middle of
your answer and a concluding comment you
also want to keep that vocal tone high
enough and loud enough to keep the
audience engaged but you can use vocal
variety just as you would if you were
the only one standing on stage also be
mindful of your other co-panelists and
how long they are answering for because
you don't want to dominate the
microphone if they're giving one to two
minute answers and then you deliver a
four plus minute answer it's going to
look like you're being a little bit
selfish with the stage time you want to
have it balanced with the other
panelists and complement their answers
transition well you can always comment
and this is where the active listening
comes into play comment on what they
have said and then how your answer
compliments or adds more to what they
have just stated again if you are being
asked to be on a panel you should be
very proud give yourself a pat on the
back because you are probably being
asked because you are very knowledgeable
in a certain area and you have that
level of expertise so enjoy the process
it's not every day you get asked to do
something like this let me know in the
comments did I miss anything are there
any more questions you have I do my best
to jump into the comment section and
respond to everyone who watches my
videos other than that if this video
added you any
value at all took me a second to say
that if it give you any value at all
please consider subscribing to my
channel subscriptions mean so much and
it's people like you who allow me to
keep putting out this type of video
content thank you so much and I'll catch
you on the next one people are more
scared of public speaking than they are
of
dying is it just me or is that wrong hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and I
am passionate about impactful
communication my YouTube channel has
helped hundreds of thousands of people
improveed their public speaking skills
and I am thrilled to release my first
ever course which has taken my decade of
learning about how to become a better
public speaker and boiled it down to
this theme of mastering the five
Essentials of public speaking I know for
a fact that if you can dial in these
five elements and perfect them you are
going to be a phenomenal public speaker
Head and Shoulders Above the Rest just
by being aware of these things by taking
the time to digest the information in
this course practice it and then put it
to action through your speeches you are
going to become a better public speaker
as a bonus in this course I sit down
with the world's greatest freestyle
rapper Harry Mack and one of the
greatest keynote speakers in the world
Shan kugo and I get their tips firsthand
of what makes them incredible at what
they do if you agree that public
speaking definitely should not be
scarier than dying sign up for my course
you won't regret it